This activity we'll be exploring
weather data in Spark.
First, we will load weather data from
a CSV file into a Spark DataFrame.
Next, we will examine the columns and
schema of the DataFrame.
We will then view the summary statistics
and drop rows with missing values.
Finally, we will compute
the correlation between two columns.
Let's begin.
First, we'll create a new
Jupyter Python notebook.
You do this by clicking on New and
choosing Python 3.
Next, we'll import SQL context.
This is done by entering from
pyspark.sql import SQLContext.
Next, we'll create an instance
of the SQLContext.
We'll enter sqlContext = SQLContext(sc).
Now let's read our weather
data into a DataFrame.
We'll call the DataFrame df and
we'll read it using the sqlContext.
We'll enter sqlContext.read.load.
The first argument is the URL of the file.
That's
file:///home/cloudera/Downloads/big-data--
4/daily_weather.csv.
The second argument specifies
the format of how to read the file.
In this case, we're going to use the
Spark CSV package from Databricks to load
the CSV directly into the DataFrame.
We need to use this because
the Cloudera image only has Spark 1.
In Spark 2 and later,
this package is included so
we don't have to use this argument.
We'll enter ,format= and
the name of the package is
com.databricks.spark.csv.
The next argument specifies that the first
line in the CSV file is the header,
header='true'.
The last argument tells Spark
to try to infer the schema
from the CSV header, inferSchema='true'.
Run this.
Now let's look at our DataFrame.
We can run a df.columns to see
the names of all the columns.
We can also run df.printSchema to
see the schema of the DataFrame.
Next, let's look at the summary
statistics for the data.
We can do this using the describe method.
We'll run df.describe().show().
This shows summary statistics for
all the columns in the DataFrame.
There's a lot of information here,
so lets just choose one column.
Let's look at air pressure at 9 AM.
We can see the summary statistics for
air pressure 9 AM by running
df.describe('air_pressure_9am').show().
There are five statistics in this output,
the count, the number of rows,
the mean, the standard deviation,
and the min and max values.
We can see the total number of columns in
the DataFrame by running len(df.columns).
We can also see the total number of rows
in the DataFrame by writing df.count.
This says that there are 1,095
rows in the DataFrame.
However, the summary statistics for
air_pressure_9am,
we see the count is 1,092.
Summary statistics do not
include rows of missing values.
This means that there are three rows in
the air_pressure_9am column that have
missing values.
We can drop these missing values.
Let's create a new DataFrame where
we've dropped these missing values.
We'll call the new DataFrame df2.
To drop the missing values, we'll enter
df.na.drop(subset=['air_pressure_9am']).
We can then count the total number of
rows in the new DataFrame, df2.count.
We see this value agrees with
our earlier value of 1092.
Next, let's compute the correlation
between two columns in the DataFrame.
We'll compute the correlation between
rain accumulation and rain duration.
To do this, we'll enter df2.stat.corr and
then the names of the two columns,
rain_accumulation_9am and
rain_duration_9am.